M r. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were
proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank
you very much. They were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t
hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a fi rm called Grunnings, which
made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin
and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which
came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over
garden fences, spying on the neighbors. the Dursleys had a small
son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no fi ner boy
anywhere.
the Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a
secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.
the boy who lived

they didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about the
Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met
for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn’t have a
sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were
as unDursleyish as it was possible to be.  e Dursleys shuddered
to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the
street.  e Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but
they had never even seen him.  is boy was another good reason
for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with
a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday
our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to
suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his
most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily
as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl fl utter past the
 window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked
Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but
missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing
his cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left
the house. He got into his car and backed out of number four’s
drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the fi rst sign
of something peculiar — a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr.
Dursley didn’t realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head
around to look again.  ere was a tabby cat standing on the corner

of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could he
have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr.
Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in
his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no,
looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley
gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he
drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of
drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind
by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffi c jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear
people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on
young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He
drummed his fi ngers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a
huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.  ey were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a
couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older
than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak!  e nerve of
him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt — these people were obviously collecting for something
. . . yes, that would be it.  e traffi c moved on and a few minutes
later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind
back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his offi ce
on the ninth fl oor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to
concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping
the boy who lived

past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; they
pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead.
Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled
at fi ve diff erent people. He made several important telephone calls
and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the
road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed
a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he
passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy.  is
bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single
collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large
doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were
saying.
“ e Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —”
“— yes, their son, Harry —”
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear fl ooded him. He looked back
at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but
thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his offi ce, snapped
at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had
almost fi nished dialing his home number when he changed his
mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache,
thinking . . . no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who
had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure his
nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It might
chapter one

have been Harvey. Or Harold.  ere was no point in worrying
Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her sister.
He didn’t blame her — if he’d had a sister like that . . . but all the
same, those people in cloaks . . .
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon
and when he left the building at fi ve o’clock, he was still so worried
that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost
fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man
was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into a
wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare,
“Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!”
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and
walked off .
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a
complete stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle,
whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set
off for home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had never
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the fi rst thing he
saw — and it didn’t improve his mood — was the tabby cat he’d
spotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He
was sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its
eyes.
“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly